info_date: 2021-09-08T00:00:00Sarasota Memorial continues to monitor COVID-19 indicators and issues in our community and region. We are working closely with public health officials to identify and report important data trends in our health system. Please note that the information on this page is updated daily, Monday - Friday (except holidays).
Starting today (Sept. 8, 2021), SMH is making a change in the way we display the COVID-19 patient data below.
In addition to the COVID-positive patients hospitalized today, the "COVID Patients Total" now also includes those who have cleared the infectious stage, based on CDC and hospital guidelines. While these patients are no longer considered COVID-positive or infectious, many have serious medical issues complicating their recovery or discharge. Previously, when COVID patients cleared the infectious stage, SMH moved them from the daily COVID-positive patient category to the cumulative number of "Patients Treated/Discharged."
This change reflects the increasing number of COVID patients who remain hospitalized for weeks or even months due to lung damage, renal failure or other medical issues preventing a safe discharge, and their impact on our hospital census and capacity.
Here is today’s summary:
Today’s patient census: 796
Today's COVID patients total: 250* (adjusted – see note below)
* NOTE: Today’s total (205) was increased to 250 to reflect 45 COVID patients cleared of infection but still hospitalized due to complications delaying recovery/discharge. Previously, these patients were included in cumulative "Patients Treated/Discharged" category below.
Today’s ICU census: 103 (no change from yesterday)
COVID patients in ICU today: 76* (adjusted – see note below)
* NOTE: Today’s total (59) was increased to 76 to reflect 17 COVID patients cleared of infection but still hospitalized in the ICU due to complications delaying recovery/discharge. Previously, these patients were included in cumulative "Patients Treated/Discharged" category below.
% Unvaccinated COVID patients in the hospital: 84%**
** Estimate based on vaccination status shared by patients or validated by an official source; this information is updated on Mondays and Thursdays.
Total hospital beds: 839
ICU bed capacity: 116
SMH has a team of clinicians — ICU doctors, nurses and hospital leaders — who monitor our census and public health indicators to determine if and when we need to increase ICU capacity.
7-Day SMH positivity rate: 14.4% (16.6% for week ending Sept. 3, 2021)
Patients who have tested positive (excludes repeat positives): 7,240 ***
Patients who have tested negative: 105,693 ***
*** Reflects patients tested through SMH systems since March 2, 2020.
Reflects total number of patients treated at SMH since outbreak began in March 2020.
Patients hospitalized since outbreak began: 4,266 (4,241 yesterday)
Patients treated/discharged: 5,229 (adjusted – see note below) {includes inpatients discharged from the hospital and outpatients treated and released from the ER}
NOTE: This count no longer includes COVID patients who cleared the infectious stage but remain hospitalized due to complications delaying their discharge; those patients remain in the COVID patient totals above.
Patient deaths: 385 (377 yesterday)
For more information, click here to visit our dedicated COVID-19 webpage.
Please email news@smh.com for media inquiries; for urgent requests, call 941-893-7649.
